switch cases are used for writing menu driven programs let's write
One example, simple menu driven program for taking a menu option for Performing Arithmetic operations.
So what I will do here is I take a menu option then based on the menu option I will perform a specific task.
So let me prepare some program then you can see. first I will display a menu on the screen that is menu
slash n then cout
first option is.
Add then slash n if I can a single line then the second option is subtract and slash n and third
option is multiply and then slash n fourth option is
divide and slash n that's it.
So I have written in a single cout statement all four menu options.
Then here I will declare a variable option.
Then I will say cout enter your choice.
Then cin I read options from Keyboard whatever the option may be I take two numbers and I will perform
the operation based on the option so for that I would take two numbers so far I am declaring variables and
also I have declared C then I will say cout enter two numbers so that operation can be performed on
them.
I read A and B then switch based on option. if it is case 1 if he has selected case 1 then I will say
c assign  A-plus B, A and B will be added and the result is stored in C And if it is case two then c
Assign A minus B and result is stored in C. case 3 then c assign A multiplied by B then break then
case four C assign A divided by B then break.
After this I will say cout, result is then displays C and also endl then
that's it it is complete program with
Me. its giving a warning that C might have not been initialized means if the option is not available then
C means uninitialized so ignored the warning and run the program.
Now you can see that here is a menu and all the menu options are given.
If I select the menu option as one then it ask for two numbers 12 and 3
result is 15.
So it has added two numbers.
If I run it again and enter the option as 2 and enter two numbers like 12 and 3.
Then the result is nine.
It has subtracted two numbers.
I will run the program once again.
Now the option is 3.
I will enter 2l numbers 10 and 2 so it is 20 this is multiplying them.
So that's all.
So.
So that's how
it is taking an option and performing a particular operation depending on the option.
So there is a switch case and this is used as menul driven program.
You can see how the program is working.
It is giving a menu and asking us to select one of the options from the menu.
If I select the four then it is asking two numbers ten and five on it is giving the result depending
on the option given fourth option.
So it is dividing two numbers.
So you can try this program on your computer.